docs(telemetry): add a Debugging guide and log-query best practices (#47762)
supabase/supabase: apps/docs/content/guides/telemetry/debugging.mdx

---
id: 'debugging'
title: 'Debugging'
description: 'Isolate and fix Supabase issues by reading the error, isolating the failing layer, and gathering evidence from logs.'
---

Debug by evidence, not by guessing. A Supabase error almost always surfaces at one layer but originates at another, so the fastest path to a fix is finding *where* the problem is, not pattern-matching the symptom. Retrying a failed request rarely helps; isolating the layer does.

## The debugging loop

> Work through these steps in order. Skipping straight to a fix before you have evidence for the cause is the most common way to waste time on a bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Work through these steps in order, skipping straight to a fix before you have evidence for the cause is the most common way to waste time on a bug.
```

> 1. **Reproduce the issue and read the error precisely.** Capture the exact status code, the error code, and the full message, not a paraphrase. A `401` is not a `403`; `PGRST002` is not `PGRST106`; a Postgres `SQLSTATE` such as `42501`, `42P01`, or `23505` points at the exact failure. The precise error is your strongest clue. If you're using `supabase-js`, remember that errors are **returned, not thrown**: they show up in the `error` field of `{ data, error }`. Check that your code inspects `error` — a swallowed error is why many bugs look like "nothing happened".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Reproduce the issue and read the error precisely.** Capture the exact status code, the error code, and the full message, not a paraphrase. A `401` is not a `403`; `PGRST002` is not `PGRST106`; a Postgres `SQLSTATE` such as `42501`, `42P01`, or `23505` points at the exact failure. The precise error is your strongest clue. If you're using `supabase-js`, remember that errors are **returned, not thrown**, check the `error` field in the `{ data, error }` response object. Make sure your code inspects `error` — a swallowed error is why many bugs look like "nothing happened".
```

2. **Locate the failing layer.** Use the request stack below. The status code and error code usually name the layer for you.
3. **Gather evidence for that layer.** Query its logs, run the security and performance advisors, and inspect the schema. Logs are the primary tool, and the layer you identified in the previous step tells you which log source to query. See [Reading logs](#reading-logs) below.

> 4. **Isolate the cause** using the troubleshooting guide for that layer (routing table below). Confirm your hypothesis against the evidence before you act. Most Supabase issues trace back to a small, known set of causes, and the guide explains how to tell them apart.

Reviewer: Maybe we could add a hash link to the table on the text "routing table below"?

Author: fixed in 66c903f

5. **Apply the fix, then verify.** Re-run the exact operation that failed and confirm it now succeeds, and that the corresponding log line is clean. A fix you haven't re-run is still a guess. If a couple of attempts don't resolve it, stop and gather more evidence rather than repeating the same change.

## The Supabase request stack

A request from a client passes through several layers before it reaches your data. Errors propagate upward, so the layer that *reports* an error is often not the layer that *caused* it. Knowing the shape of the stack is what makes isolating the layer possible.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A request from a client passes through several layers before it reaches your data. Errors propagate upward, so the layer that *reports* an error is often not the layer that *caused* it.

Knowing the shape of the stack is what makes isolating the layer possible.

```

```
Client (supabase-js / SSR)
  → Edge / API gateway → edge_logs (HTTP status, routing, rate limits)
      The gateway routes each request to ONE of these services. They run in parallel,
      not as a chain:
      ├→ PostgREST (Data API)  → postgrest_logs (low-signal; PGRST* evidence lives in edge_logs and postgres_logs)
      ├→ GoTrue (Auth)         → auth_logs      (login, JWT, OAuth, email)
      ├→ Storage API           → storage_logs   (uploads, object access)
      └→ Realtime              → realtime_logs  (channels, presence, broadcast)
  PostgREST, GoTrue, and Storage each reach the database independently:
  → Supavisor (connection pooler) → supavisor_logs (pooling, timeouts)
  → Postgres (SQL, RLS, triggers) → postgres_logs  (SQLSTATE, RLS, functions)
```

> Edge Functions sit outside this stack and log separately: `function_edge_logs` for the HTTP request to the function, and `function_logs` for `console` output from inside it.

Reviewer: This is probably worth a "note" type `Admonition`.

Author: fixed in 9bbbadd

A permission error or an unexpectedly empty result at the API layer is almost always a Postgres row-level security or privilege problem one layer down. When in doubt, trace toward the database.

## Reading logs

> Once you know the layer, query that layer's log source directly rather than scanning everything. Pick one `source`, bound the time window, and select only the fields you need. When a query comes up empty, widen along an anchor, such as a timestamp, request ID, or error code, to follow the same request into the adjacent source (for example from `edge_logs` into `postgres_logs`) instead of broadening into an unfiltered scan. A wide, unfiltered query across every source buries the one line you need and, on paid projects, costs more in scanned data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Once you know the layer, query that layer's log source directly rather than scanning everything. Pick one `source`, bound the time window, and select only the fields you need.

When a query comes up empty, widen along an anchor, such as a timestamp, request ID, or error code, to follow the same request into the adjacent source (for example from `edge_logs` into `postgres_logs`) instead of broadening into an unfiltered scan.

A wide, unfiltered query across every source buries the one line you need and, on paid projects, costs more in scanned data.
```

Breaking down paragraphs like this when there isn't a sequence of instructions helps a lot reading and eye tracking ⭐

| Webhook not firing; `pg_cron` job not running; `pg_net` queue stuck; `42501 ... http_request_queue` | Database jobs → `postgres_logs` | [Webhook debugging](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/webhook-debugging-guide-M8sk47) · [pg_cron debugging](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/pgcron-debugging-guide-n1KTaz) · [42501 http_request_queue](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/42501--permission-denied-for-table-httprequestqueue-KnozmQ) |
| Reading or querying logs; interpreting Postgres logs; finding API errors in logs; reading metrics | Diagnostics → any log source | [Logging guide](/docs/guides/telemetry/logs) · [Interpret Postgres logs](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/how-to-interpret-and-explore-the-postgres-logs-OuCIOj) · [API errors in logs](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/discovering-and-interpreting-api-errors-in-the-logs-7xREI9) · [Logging levels](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/understanding-postgresql-logging-levels-and-how-they-impact-your-project-KXiJRm) · [View database metrics](/docs/guides/troubleshooting/how-to-view-database-metrics-uqf2z_) |

> For query performance and schema-design questions, such as indexing, `EXPLAIN`, N+1 queries, or partitioning, see the [Postgres guides](/docs/guides/database). This page covers diagnosing a failure; those guides cover optimizing a design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For query performance and schema-design questions such as indexing, `EXPLAIN`, N+1 queries, or partitioning, see the [Postgres guides](/docs/guides/database) which covers diagnosing a failure.
```

The last bit is contradictory or confusing, maybe is missing something that I ignore, but my guess is less is more.
